Dear Editor,

We thank the anonymous referee for carefully reading the paper, and for valuable comments and suggestions. We have considered all the comments and made respective changes to the manuscript as described below in detail. 
The revised version of the paper is submitted as a complete manuscript without any marks. The additionally submitted "M87-latexdiff.pdf" is a LaTeXdiff output file clearly presenting all introduced changes made. In the reply below ">" highlights the referee's comments, and "+" marks the author's reply. 

> Concerning the paper's organization, my impression after reading it for the first time is that the current manuscript is more like a collection of independent results from various image analyses, but these findings are not linked to physical interpretations. I suggest that the authors enhance physical discussions in the paper, especially related to the questions that were raised in the introduction -- for instance, why is it important to know the properties of the KH instability close to the central engine and if the derived parameters are consistent with theoretical predictions, or if the reconstructed magnetic field configuration is compatible with theoretical expectations for the jet in M87 or the general magnetic jet launching scenario for other AGNs.

+ We reorganized the paper, by introducing a new section called 'Discussion' (Section 6), where all physical interpretations of the analysed data were moved from the previous sections. Additionally, we moved Figure 7 to the discussion section and renamed it as Figure 10, as it is exclusively referenced there. We made significant efforts to enhance the physical interpretation of the KH instability and magnetic field structure by adding more comparisons with theoretical predictions in the discussion section. We emphasized the importance of the KH instability in the Summary section, where concluded that the instability should be also taken into account due to its occurrence in the region of jet formation and collimation. 

> Similar to the interpretation in the companion manuscript (Paschenko et al. 2023), the central ridge line in the CLEAN images, especially at 15-25 mas, is argued to be an imaging artefact. According to this logic, the modelling process for the KH instability should exclude those features. However, I can see in various figures and texts that the authors still include them in the analysis, if I am not mistaken. I see this as simply contradictory, and I suggest the authors provide more explanations on this point or reanalysis if necessary.

+ In Section 3.2, we have expanded our explanation regarding the central spine observed at 15 GHz, emphasizing its nature as an imaging artefact. After, we made a decision to use an 8 GHz image since it does not show the prominent central spine as a 15 GHz image. In addition, at the end of the section, we presented the results of applying the KH analysis to the synthetic data, which showed the significance of the measurements.  

> Related to Section 4 and Figure 8, the errors of the spectral index values seem to be of the order of only ~0.01, as I can read from the plot. This is overly small compared to the amount that one can expect, let me say ~0.1, when one follows Section 4.2, which shows various sources of errors in the spectral index calculations. On the other hand, the errors presented in Figure 6 look much more realistic, of ~0.05-0.10 starting at ~2-3 mas from the core. I suggest double-checking this point since the later discussions of the evolution of the jet largely depend on the number of errors.

+ Thank you for the detailed check. A bug was indeed found and the plot was updated.

> As for the linear polarization analysis, the biggest issue is that with only two-frequency maps, one can only obtain lower limits on the Faraday rotation. Therefore the authors introduce assumptions about expected values of RM, such as Park et al. and Zavala & Taylor, and maximum RM which can cause significant depolarization of the jet. While this might still be a viable approximation to estimate the overall order of RM in the whole jet, the authors take further steps to derive the absolute EVPAs and make a detailed comparison of the RM signs with previous studies. This raises concerns. First, the systematic uncertainty of the absolute EVPA should be huge, considering possible errors on the integer n of at least 1. Second, the exact location and particle contents of the Faraday screen in front of the jet in M87 is still a matter of debate, which in the end introduces another systematic uncertainty to the EVPA. Given this, the authors should provide possible ranges of the parameter n explicitly so that readers can obtain a sense of the underlying systematic uncertainties.

+ In section 5, we added a detailed discussion regarding the systematic uncertainties provided by the uncertainty of the parameter n. We estimated the change of RM value corresponding to a unit change in n. The results indicate that the value is two times higher than the errors in previous measurements made by Park et al. and Zavala & Taylor. This makes the RM map in Figure 9 significant.

> In Section 2.2, the explanation of ngVLA should be moved to the end of the paper, where the authors can discuss future perspectives of the research. I think this sentence shouldn’t belong here.

+ Moved to the summary. 

> In Section 3.1, the authors should explain what G(x) stands for -- I believe it is the cross-sectional intensity profile of the jet at a core distance x.

+ Explanation was added to the text. Here x is a transverse distance, and G(x) is intensity. The G(x) notation could be misleading, so it was changed to I(x).

> In Table 1 and Figure 5, please consider using different line styles or more explicit markers. This colour scheme can be difficult for some readers.

+ A variety of combinations were tried, but the plot was hard to read in all cases. We decided to split it into two separate plots to enhance clarity and understanding. The first plot, which displays the KH models overlaid onto the intensity contours, is crucial in demonstrating the consistency between the model and the observed intensity distribution of the jet. The second plot was created to showcase the quality of the fit by overlaying the positions of components with the model.
+ In Figure 5, we introduced the expected second thread of the elliptical body mode to illustrate its consistency with the observations, represented by the dashed orange curve. Despite an inability to trace and extract the thread, we considered that it will be helpful to complement the figure with a theoretical thread with a 180 degrees phase offset. As can be seen from Figure 5, it corresponds to the intensity contours well.

> In Section 3.2, where the authors discuss the brightness of the northern and southern jet edges, similar results from long-term monitoring by Walker et al. (2018) should also help more fruitful discussions.

+ The Walker et al. (2018) reference was added to the text. 

> In the same section, readers will be able to understand better the meanings of the physical parameters, such as Mach number and enthalpy ratio, if the authors can present some available estimates of them for the jet in M87 from numerical simulations or comparisons with other jetted AGNs.

+ Comparison with jet simulations of 3C 273 and 3C 31 was added. The typical parameters for similar jets were added: M_jet~3, eta~0.02.

> The last summary section is only half-written, without complete sentences for the bullet points. I think this section should be presented as at least a complete single paragraph.

+ The summary was complemented by a paragraph discussing future prospects.

+ Additional minor updates were implemented to improve the clarity of the text.

+ We decided to change the title of the article since it will better reflect the content of the text.

Sincerely yours,
Aleksei Nikonov on behalf of the authors
