%This work releases the first set of empirical results the prompting of LLMs for  

%Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated substantial progress in natural language processing (NLP), have shown great potential in capturing complex patterns in language data, and have paved the way for new avenues of research in NLP, such as automated ontology construction. For ontology construction, the main challenge is specifying standardized conceptual spaces as hierarchical taxonomies for structured semantic knowledge. In this paper, we explore the automated construction of ontologies as an emergent behavior shown by LLMs—-something it was not trained to do but displays a capacity for. In this context, this work examines the behavior of three types of LLMs across a range of model sizes that span from millions to billions of parameters in their ability to automatically construct ontologies addressing entity typing and hierarchy construction. To leverage LLMs as an assistant to construct ontologies, we proposed a few-shot multi-task prompt learning technique for fine-tuning LLMs with the aim of conceptualization of unknown entities. The empirical analysis in this work reveals that LLMs with even fewer parameters with the correct training strategy could be more useful than even LLMs with billions of parameters.
%Language models demonstrate both quantitative improvement and new qualitative capabilities with increasing scale. Despite their potentially transformative impact, these new capabilities are as yet poorly characterized. In order to inform future research, prepare for disruptive new model capabilities, and ameliorate socially harmful effects, it is vital that we understand the present and near-future capabilities and limitations of language models.

%To address this challenge, we introduce the Beyond the Imitation Game benchmark (BIG-bench). BIG-bench currently consists of 204 tasks, contributed by 444 authors across 132 institutions. Task topics are diverse, drawing problems from linguistics, childhood development, math, common-sense reasoning, biology, physics, social bias, software development, and beyond. BIG-bench focuses on tasks that are believed to be beyond the capabilities of current language models. We evaluate the behavior of OpenAI’s GPT models, Google-internal dense transformer architectures, and Switch-style sparse transformers on BIG-bench, across model sizes spanning millions to hundreds of billions of parameters. In addition, a team of human expert raters performed all tasks in order to provide a strong baseline. Findings include: model performance and calibration both improve with scale, but are poor in absolute terms (and when compared with rater performance); performance is remarkably similar across model classes, though with benefits from sparsity; tasks that improve gradually and predictably commonly involve a large knowledge or memorization component, whereas tasks that exhibit “breakthrough” behavior at a critical scale often involve multiple steps or components, or brittle metrics; social bias typically increases with scale in settings with ambiguous context, but this can be improved with prompting.